we have some breaking news from Gaza
where at least 25 people have been
killed in Israeli attacks on two schools
in the west of Gaza City our
correspondent Han Mahmud is joining us
now from bah in central Gaza hany what
more can you tell us about these
attacks yes Daran well we're looking at
a situations that happened less than 24
hours after the bombing of yet another
school in Western Gaza that's inwan
District in the Northern Western part of
Gaza City and this time it happened to
be two schools that turn into evacuation
centers for the past months Sheltering
uh refugees and displaced families from
different parts of the Gaz strip now
this place families are not coming from
particular areas they're coming from
different parts of the northern part of
the strip and Gaza City fleeing the
unpredictable bombs the horror of the
ongoing War these schools are back to
back they are what operates between
these two school is the fence one is a
private school educational facility the
other one is a public school and they
are backto back filled with a displaced
families the eyewitnesses in the area
describe these school as overcrowded the
most overcrowded spaces available for
displaced uh families in in the central
part of Gaza City the bombing took place
simultaneously at the same time the two
schools were were struck relentlessly by
multiple air strikes and uh several
people reported to Al Baptist hospital
so far we getting from the hospital the
only operational Hospital in Gaza Center
AL Baptist Hospital 25 people
transferred to the hospital already
pronounced dead these are dead bodies
were managed to be removed from the
rubbles and from the dust that filled up
the area into the hospital there are
more still under the rubbles we're
talking about overcrowded
packed to space in two schools by the th
the number of people inside these two
facilities uh by the Thousand we're
looking at a situation a context that is
full of horror right now Bloodshed and
more destruction something that is
becoming as we monitor how the
situations have been evolving in the
past a few days more of these uh
evacuation centers are attack
systematically the attentions it seems
by the Israeli military right now
okay hany uh thank you hany for that
reporting from in the center of the Gaza
Strip let's bring in h who's joining us
from H ham of course reporting from am
because Al jaaz has been baned from
reporting from Israel um hamda what is
the Israeli military or the government
saying about the targeting of two
schools Sheltering displaced people in
Gaza
well this is the third school that's
been struck by the Israeli Army in just
less than 24 hours and in a lengthy
statement the Israeli military says that
they struck these two schools because
they are claiming Hamas was using them
as quote command centers and to carry
out attacks on Israeli troops but of
course no evidence was provided for
these claims this is something we've
seen from the Army time and time again
saying that Hamas is using several
different places schools mosques
hospitals as command centers when we
have never once seen evidence of these
claims the military is also claiming
they took precautionary measures to make
sure that the minimal damage would be
caused to civilians including quote
using precise Munitions but it's a
little bit difficult to believe when you
see the images on the ground when you
hear our colleagues in Gaza reporting
from the ground reporting at least 25
Palestinians killed and several others
who are stuck underneath the rubbles the
screams of the Palestinians continuing
even at this hour while our colleagues
from elaz Arabic are live on the air
hearing the screams of Palestinians who
are stuck under the rubble of these
schools from the Israeli strikes now the
military is saying that quote hams is
using these civilian areas and they are
using civilians as human Shields a claim
time and time again we've heard from the
Israeli military in order to justify
their attacks on displaced Palestinians
in Northern Gaza in southern Gaza in
central Gaza and especially on civilian
infrastructure and um hamda we also hear
over and over again from people on the
ground in Gaza as well as our
correspondents who say look the Israeli
Army in the military they never give any
prior warning even to people who are
Sheltering in these areas allowing them
time to find some other place to go
to that's exactly right the Israeli
military has previously falsely claimed
that they do give warnings they do give
some sort of knock prior to the air
strikes that they are alleging or
targeting Hamas operatives but that is
simply not the case we've heard from
Witnesses on the ground from our own
teams on the ground in Gaza that that's
not the case that the Israeli Army
regularly carries out these attacks I
mean look at what happened yesterday
three simultaneous strikes on a school
where at least 17 people were killed and
there is Army is saying that they use
precautions they try to minimize
civilian casualties but you see time and
time again Palestinians picking up body
parts and remnants of people who've been
killed and injured in these attacks so
there is no prior warning when the Army
is attacking civilian infrastructure
especially when they allege that Hamas
is using the facilities when in fact
there are thousands of forcibly
displaced Palestinians using these
schools and hospitals as a place to stay
as a place to escape the fighting as
they've been displaced time and time
again but the military says and
continues to claim that Hamas is using
these facilities for military purposes
which we have never once seen proof of
and and in this case as well ham just
for confirmation I mean up until this
point the Israeli Army has not provided
any evidence to support their
claims that's exactly right the military
time and time again leases lengthy
statements saying that Hamas is using
civilian infrastructure for military
purposes in this specific day on these
two strikes on these schools they say
that Hamas was using these schools to
plan and Carry Out attacks on Israeli
troops on the ground and remember these
are areas that the Israeli Army has said
time and time again more than six months
ago in fact that they have achieved near
full operational control on the ground
but we see it over and over where they
are continuing to face Fierce resistance
from Palestinian Fighters but
nonetheless they are still claiming that
Hamas is using these civilian
infrastructures but never once has given
this proof and the biggest of all of
these claims by the Army was back at the
raid at Al shifa Hospital the continued
attack saying that Hamas was using it as
a command center which still to this day
there has never been proof of there has
never been information or pictures or
any sort of intelligence that the Army
is citing to back up their claims we've
seen this time and time again in this
war that has so far killed nearly 40,000
Palestinians and the Israeli military
continues to make these claims without
providing the evidence to the public the
media or anyone else um hamda let me
just ask you about uh developments a
little earlier on today where we did see
reports of Rocket attacks on Israel from
the south of the Gaza Strip just talk us
through what happened
there well we're looking at at least
five rockets that were fired from
Southern Gaza many of them intercepted
but some actually ended up hitting areas
and causing fires and again this is also
an area the military has said they've
reached full operational control over or
partial operational control they often
claim these big strategic military
victories on the ground we've seen this
again and again especially in the
invasions of KH Yunis the attacks on RAF
saying that they have these big military
achievements and that they have
eliminated almost all of the Hamas
brigades and fighters on the ground
these are claims from the Army but again
time and time again we see that they are
still facing Hamas Fighters Islamic jiad
fighters on the ground there where these
claims are actually false they have not
achieved this full operational control
they have not achieved these military
and strategic victories that they often
boast about they've said time and time
again they have eliminated the
capability of fighters in Gaza to launch
rockets but just in the last several
days we've seen several projectiles that
have been fired from Gaza something that
of course is driving the security
establishment within Israel kind of
crazy because for 10 months there have
been continuous air strikes continuous
bombardment and somehow these Fighters
are still able to launch rockets
something that the Israeli military is
constantly assessing and constantly
looking
on how they're going to continue their
fight and the war on Gaza okay ham we'll
let you go for now thank you for all of
that reporting from Aman and these are
the latest pictures that we're getting
right here on Al jazer of the two
schools uh in Gaza that have been
attacked and the latest death toll is at
least 25 people have been killed by
these attacks on two schools where
displaced Palestinians have been
Sheltering let's get an update once
again from our correspondent on the
ground hany Mahmud who's joining us from
d
what more are you hearing about these
attacks well the F they confirmed number
of of people who were killed in these
multiple air strikes at these two
schools again these schools are backto
back they are full of this place
families have been Sheltering inside
these do evacuation centers people are
running to these evacuation Center
because their neighborhoods their their
homes and their areas resal areas have
been completely destroyed or severely
damaged by isra military to the point
they become in uninhabitable they turn
into a waste land what people will do
they concentrate in these evacuation
centers seeking safety seeking
protection and away from the horror of
the unpredictable bombs now what's
really concerning and horrifying and
we've seen this pattern happening for
the past few days the attacks
concentrated attacks on evacuation
centers are happening without any prior
warning whatsoever something that
contradicts the really military it put
in a statement that they they're being
cautious they're trying to minimize the
the damage but on the ground what we're
seeing this you there's no way as people
in a very frustrating tone you can't
minimize damage if you're not giving a
prior warning to a a facility that is
full of this place uh individuals
already tired exhausted they they've
been in this situation for the past uh
10 months H there are more people we're
expecting the number to increase the
number of casualties the number of
people who are being removed it from
under the rubbles and a transfer to the
hospital and unfortunately this been
happening uh for quite some time now and
what what's really concerning for many
of the people who are still in
evacuation centers that haven't been
targeted yet this attack has has caused
further internal and force displacement
has people feel that they're they're
their their tiny bit of of of remaining
safety have been shattered completely
right now not evacuation centers that
have been identified and designated as
areas for displ families are not safe
for them we seen in the past how
hospitals turn theband on by the Israeli
military to the point the entire Health
Facilities being completely destroyed or
severely damaged the only operational H
facility is here in the central area and
doesn't have the capacity to uh provide
proper Health Care uh or medical care to
those who are needed and right now when
when the attacks are happening in this
manner at the evacuation Center soon
enough we're going to see more people
are lifting left in the streets they're
exposed to SK Predators drones
surveillance drones and attack drones
that are finding them as easy pre being
under attack hany how many people and
how many families would have been
Sheltering in these two schools and and
which areas of the Gaza Strip would
would they have come from or have they
come from practically
all
over well the P 10 months have been
quite difficult for uh Palestinians
family across the god STP some of these
families have been displaced more than
three times five times it's just
shocking sometimes to hear people
talking about the seventh or eight times
being displaced and they're coming from
different parts of Gaza City and the
northern part of the strip that includes
Bon B and the Eastern neighborhoods of
Gaza including sh that has 100% being
obliterated uh when the uh the Israeli
military invaded it a few weeks ago it
becomes quite unhabitable it was
declared by the municipality as
disastrous area it it's quite created
catastropic situations living conditions
and and catastrophic situations for
people to the point they they had to
leave the area and seek shelters in
these uh evacuation centers mainly the
schools we're talking about hundreds of
displaced families and if we look at the
Palestinian Society the way how it's
socially constructed we're talking about
the the average family is made of five
to to seven and in some cases your
family is made of 10 people and the vast
majority are children if you multiply
that by hundred of families we're
talking about thousand people inside
these uh schools Sheltering seeking
protection and safety from the horror of
the unpredictable falling bombs and this
is exactly it's not an exaggeration to
say it's unpredictable horror of the
Fallen BMS because there are no prior
warning whatsoever everything that has
been put out by the Israeli military
every narrative that is being pushed um
to uh pretty much describe that the
Israeli military taking cautions and
taking necessary steps to protect
civilians well on the ground what we're
seeing is more children and more women
and more elderly people and more young
men coming in pieces or coming is
shredded severely bleeding or severe
burnt transfer to the hospital that is
the dominating scen was documented it
we've seen it happening with our own
eyes whether here in the central area or
the from the footage coming from the
bomb site like yesterday they
were video of of people looking for
remains buting parts of their relatives
who were inside the school that was bed
in Awan District the same exact
situation is happening again repeating
itself in what seems to be a new normal
for Palestinians inside evacuation Cent
Hy for those who have survived this
attack or or are injured where uh which
hospital is operational in that area and
what is the state of that hospital right
now well the the only semi operational
health facility in in Gaza City and the
entire northern part is Al Baptist
hospital that's at the center a part of
Gaza
City mainly or namely the Gaza square
area it's uh it's a a hospital has been
pushed repeatedly out of service and to
remind our viewers that the initial
weeks of the war there really really
military bombed the school and killed
the close to 200 people who were
Sheltering in the courtyard of the
hospitals it's running at a very low
capacity here many of the doctors
including medical missions who made made
it uh to the hospital describe hor
situation inside the hospital some of
them even went to describe that it's is
not a hospital anywhere it's more of a
morg here the only thing that is
provided there is receiving the dead
bodies that prepare them for barrier
because there isn't any medical care
taking in place whatsoever thank you so
much my apologies but we are just coming
to the top of the hour so uh we will let
you go for now we'll speak to you again
in the next couple of minutes these are
the latest pictures that we're getting
uh from Gaza City where Israel has
attacked two schools uh which had been
Sheltering displaced Palestinians the so
far we understand at least 25
Palestinians have been killed that death
toll expected to go uh higher we're back
in make sure to subscribe to our channel
to get the latest news from Al jazer